testing figure links (#244)
AlexsLemonade/OpenPBTA-manuscript: content/03.results.md

Next, we created a public Github analysis repository (https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/OpenPBTA-analysis) with continuous integration to ensure analysis reproducibility.
We developed methods for generating consensus SNVs from Lancet, Mutect2, and Strelka2 as well as consensus copy number altered regions from MantaSV, CNVkit, and ControlFREEC (**STAR Methods**). 
This resulted in high-confidence SNVs, gains, losses, amplifications, and deep deletion calls used as input for all downstream analyses.
We additionally created a GitHub manuscript repository (https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/OpenPBTA-manuscript) with ManuBot [@url:https://manubot.org/ ; @doi:10.1371/journal.pcbi.1007128] integration to enable manuscript creation using Markdown within GitHub.

We maintained a data release folder on Amazon S3 containing merged files for each analysis, downloadable from the GitHub repository or open access CAVATICA project.  

<!-- TODO: Stub for the process for contributing analytical code (**Figure {@fig:S1}** and **STAR Methods**) and to the manuscript. -->

> ![**Overview of the OpenPBTA Project.** A, The Children's Brain Tumor Network and the Pacific Pediatric Neuro-Oncology Consortium collected tumor samples from 943 patients. To date, 38 cell lines were created from tumor tissue and over 2000 specimens were sequenced (N = 1035 RNA-Seq, N = 940 WGS, and N = 32 WXS or Targeted panel). Data was harmonized by the Kids First Data Resource Center using an Amazon S3 framework within CAVATICA. B, Processed data was released through the OpenPBTA GitHub project, through which contributors filed issues and developed code for analyses within docker. Additional analysis details can be found in **Figure {@fig:S1}**. Simultaneously, this manuscript was written in GitHub using Manubot. All analysis and manuscript code was reviewed and continuously integrated using CircleCI. C, Stacked bar plot summary of the number of biospecimens per phase of therapy per broad histology (GNG = ganglioglioma, LGG = low-grade glioma, DIPG = diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma, DMG = diffuse midline glioma, EPN = ependymoma, HGG = high-grade glioma, ATRT = atypical teratoid rhabdoid tumor, CNS-ET = CNS embryonal tumor, MB = medulloblastoma, PNF = plexiform neurofibroma, DNET = dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor, CRANIO = craniopharyngioma, EWS = Ewing sarcoma, CPP = choroid plexus papilloma. Panel A created with BioRender.com](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/AlexsLemonade/OpenPBTA-analysis/e68062fc6452287a5a2782d027055ce3e7e93d78/figures/pngs/figure1.png?sanitize=true){#fig:Fig1 width="7in"}

Reviewer: Perhaps you tested this already:

```suggestion
![**Overview of the OpenPBTA Project.** A, The Children's Brain Tumor Network and the Pacific Pediatric Neuro-Oncology Consortium collected tumor samples from 943 patients. To date, 38 cell lines were created from tumor tissue and over 2000 specimens were sequenced (N = 1035 RNA-Seq, N = 940 WGS, and N = 32 WXS or Targeted panel). Data was harmonized by the Kids First Data Resource Center using an Amazon S3 framework within CAVATICA. B, Processed data was released through the OpenPBTA GitHub project, through which contributors filed issues and developed code for analyses within docker. Additional analysis details can be found in **Figure {@fig:S1}**. Simultaneously, this manuscript was written in GitHub using Manubot. All analysis and manuscript code was reviewed and continuously integrated using CircleCI. C, Stacked bar plot summary of the number of biospecimens per phase of therapy per broad histology (GNG = ganglioglioma, LGG = low-grade glioma, DIPG = diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma, DMG = diffuse midline glioma, EPN = ependymoma, HGG = high-grade glioma, ATRT = atypical teratoid rhabdoid tumor, CNS-ET = CNS embryonal tumor, MB = medulloblastoma, PNF = plexiform neurofibroma, DNET = dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor, CRANIO = craniopharyngioma, EWS = Ewing sarcoma, CPP = choroid plexus papilloma. Panel A created with [BioRender.com](https://biorender.com/)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/AlexsLemonade/OpenPBTA-analysis/e68062fc6452287a5a2782d027055ce3e7e93d78/figures/pngs/figure1.png?sanitize=true){#fig:Fig1 width="7in"}
```

Author: update: this actually does work even though it doesn't appear it would in sublime text. pushed in https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/OpenPBTA-manuscript/pull/244/commits/149329f186fc73f2c72812a329b97d465735c612

Author: OK, just kidding on this - it creates a hyperlink, but the url goes to `file:///converted/BioRender.com`, so that won't work. Sigh.

The Children’s Brain Tumor Tissue Consortium (CBTTC), currently the Children’s Brain Tumor Network (CBTN), opened its protocol for brain tumor and matched normal sample collection in 2011 and as such, the majority of the samples within the OpenPBTA dataset lack molecular subtype annotation. 
In the absence of methylation arrays commonly used for tumor classification, we coupled key genomic features of tumor entities described by the WHO in 2016 and low-grade glioma (LGG) subtypes described by Ryall and colleagues [@doi:10.1016/j.ccell.2020.03.011] with clinician and pathologist review to subtype 64% (1,281/2,007) of tumor biospecimens with high confidence (**Table S1**).
Importantly, this collaborative molecular subtyping process allowed us to identify data entry errors (e.g., an ETMR entered as a medulloblastoma) and mis-identified specimens (e.g., Ewing sarcoma sample labeled as a craniopharyngioma), update diagnoses using modern terms (e.g., primitive neuro-ectodermal tumor [PNET] diagnoses), and discover rarer tumor entities within the OpenPBTA (e.g., H3-mutant ependymoma, meningioma with _YAP1::FAM118B_ fusion).

> **Table 1** lists the subtypes we defined within the OpenPBTA, comprising of LGATs (N = 569), high-grade gliomas (N = 314), embryonal tumors (N = 229), ependymomas (N = 65), tumors of sellar region (N = 51), mesenchymal non-meningothelial tumors (N = 21), glialneuronal tumors (N = 20), and chordomas (N = 12). 

Reviewer: What happens if you (leaving your tag in), try:

```suggestion
** *@tbl:T1 ** lists the subtypes we defined within the OpenPBTA, comprising of LGATs (N = 569), high-grade gliomas (N = 314), embryonal tumors (N = 229), ependymomas (N = 65), tumors of sellar region (N = 51), mesenchymal non-meningothelial tumors (N = 21), glialneuronal tumors (N = 20), and chordomas (N = 12). 
```

Looking at [these docs](https://github.com/tomduck/pandoc-tablenos#clever-references)

Author: Didn't try with spaces, but when I tried without, it appeared to change the formatting, with or without curly braces. I can try this.

Author: Still getting `??` so will open a new issue for this.

Multiple histologies contained somatic mutations or fusions in _NF2_: 41% (7/17) of meningiomas, 5% (3/60) of ependymomas,  and 27% (3/11) schwannomas. 
Rare fusions in _ERBB4_, _YAP1_, _KRAS_, and _MAML2_ were observed in 10% (6/60) of ependymoma tumors. 
DNETs harbored alterations in MAPK/PI3K pathway genes as previously reported [@doi:10.1093/jnen/nlz101], including _FGFR1_ (21%, 4/19), _PDGFRA_ (10%, 2/19), and _BRAF_ (5%, 1/19).
Frequent mutations in rarer brain tumor histologies (N < 5) are depicted in **Figure {@fig:S3}A**.

> ![**Figure 2. Mutational landscape of PBTA tumors.** Shown are frequencies of canonical somatic gene mutations, CNVs, fusions, and TMB (top bar plot) for the top 20 genes mutated across primary tumors within the OpenPBTA dataset. A, Low-grade astrocytic tumors (N = 227): low-grade glioma astrocytoma (N = 187), ganglioglioma (N = 35), subependymal giant cell astrocytoma (N = 2), diffuse fibrillary astrocytoma (N = 1), pilocytic astrocytoma (N = 1), and pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma (N = 1); B, Embryonal tumors (N = 128): medulloblastomas (N = 95), atypical teratoid rhabdoid tumors (N = 24), embryonal tumors with multilayer rosettes (N = 2), other CNS embryonal tumors (N = 5), ganglioneuroblastoma (N = 1), and CNS neuroblastoma (N = 1); C, Diffuse astrocytic and oligodendroglial tumors (N = 61): diffuse midline gliomas (N = 34) and non-midline high-grade gliomas (N = 26), oligodendroglioma (N = 1); D, Other CNS tumors (N = 195): ependymomas (N = 60), dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumors (N = 19), meningiomas (N = 17), schwannoma (N = 11), neurofibroma plexiform (N = 7). Other CNS tumors with N < 5 are displayed in **Figure {@fig:S3}A**. Patient sex (`germline_sex_estimate`) and tumor histology (`cancer_group`) are displayed as annotations at the bottom of each plot. Only samples with mutations in the listed genes are shown. Multiple CNVs are denoted as a complex event.](images/main/Figure2.png){#fig:Fig2}

Reviewer: This shows up in the diff but I can't tell that anything has changed... 🤔

Author: I didn't change this, so not sure...?
